Title 
The American journal of hospice & palliative care

Article Title 
Criteria for enrolling dementia patients in hospice: a replication.
Abstract Text 
Because survival time varies greatly in dementia, it is difficult for dementia patients to meet a key criterion for the Medicare Hospice Benefit, a six-month survival time.
In a previous study, the authors examined guidelines for admitting dementia patients to hospice; the National Hospice Organization (NHO) guidelines were found to work well in identifying appropriate candidates for hospice among dementia patients.
This was especially true for those patients whose deficits had progressed in an ordinal fashion consistent with Functional Assessment Staging (FAST) and who had reached stage 7C.
The purpose of this study was to examine the utility of the NHO guidelines in identifying dementia patients who are appropriate for hospice; the limitations of these guidelines regarding non-ordinal patients; and the importance of the actual care plans used--as opposed to our previous study, which only examined initial treatment plans.
Forty-five dementia patients enrolled in Hospice of the Great Lakes in Illinois were studied longitudinally over two years; this included a follow-up period of at least six months for all patients.
Measures included: survival time; FAST; a medical complications checklist, which consisted of common complications of end-stage dementia; and co-morbid medical conditions and aggressive care, which consisted of feeding tubes, antibiotics, and Foley catheters used during the course of the study.
Patients who had reached Stage 7C at intake had a mean survival time of 4.1 months; and the majority (71 percent) died within six months.
Non-ordinal patients lived significantly longer at a mean of 10.9 months (p < .01),
and and the minority (30 percent) died within six months.
Foley catheters decreased survival time; and the use of antibiotics did not make a difference.
This study echoed our previous findings regarding the usefulness of NHO guidelines in identifying dementia patients with a survival time of six months or less, specifically those at stage 7C or greater.
The findings also suggest that the nature of the palliative care plan influences survival time.
