Title 
Journal of clinical psychopharmacology

Article Title 
Lithium augmentation in treatment-resistant depression: meta-analysis of placebo-controlled studies.
Abstract Text 
The addition of lithium to the treatment regimens of previously nonresponding depressed patients has been repeatedly investigated in controlled studies.
The authors undertook this meta-analysis to investigate the efficacy of lithium augmentation of conventional antidepressants.
An attempt was made to identify all placebo-controlled trials of lithium augmentation in refractory depression.
Only double-blind studies that involved participants who had been treated with lithium or placebo addition after not responding to conventional antidepressants were to be included in the meta-analysis.
Further inclusion criteria were the use of accepted diagnostic criteria for depression and the use of response criteria based on the acceptable measurement of depression as an outcome variable.
Studies were located by a search of the MEDLINE database, a search in the Cochrane Library, and an intensive search by hand of reviews on lithium augmentation.
Nine of 11 placebo-controlled, double-blind studies were included in this meta-analysis.
Aggregating three studies with a total of 110 patients that used a minimum lithium dose of 800 mg/day, or a dose sufficient to reach lithium serum levels of > or = 0.5 mEq/L, and a minimum treatment duration of 2 weeks, the authors found that the pooled odds ratio of response during lithium augmentation compared with the response during placebo treatment was 3.31 (95% confidence interval, 1.46-7.53).
The corresponding relative response rate was 2.14 (95% confidence interval, 1.23-3.70),
the absolute improvement in response rate was 27% (95% confidence interval, 9.8%-44.2%),
and the number of patients needed to be treated to obtain one more responder was 3.7.
Inclusion of six more studies that fulfilled inclusion criteria but which treated subjects with additional lithium for less than 2 weeks or with a lower lithium dose (total, 234 patients) resulted in even higher estimates.
Lithium augmentation seems to be the treatment strategy in refractory depression that has been investigated most frequently in placebo-controlled, double-blind studies.
The authors conclude from this meta-analysis that with respect to efficacy, lithium augmentation is the first-choice treatment procedure for depressed patients who fail to respond to antidepressant monotherapy.
