Title 
The Annals of pharmacotherapy

Article Title 
Statin-fibrate combination therapy.
Abstract Text 
Precautionary warnings for severe myopathy and rhabdomyolysis from the coadministration of statins and fibrates have been well publicized.
However, a recent cerivastatin labeling change made the combined use with fibric acid derivatives a contraindication.
Practical recommendations for clinicians who care for patients with refractory mixed hyperlipidemia are needed.
To provide recommendations for clinicians in the treatment of refractory mixed hyperlipidemia.
A comprehensive MEDLINE (1966-July 2000) and bibliographic search was performed.
Thirty-six published clinical trials and 29 case reports involving combination therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors and fibric acid derivatives regarding the occurrence of rhabdomyolysis or myopathy were reviewed.
The literature review demonstrated that combination therapy with a statin and fibrate increases the risk of muscle damage, with an incidence of 0.12%.
Risk factors that predispose patients to myopathy caused by combination statin-fibrate therapy include increased age, female gender, renal or liver disease, diabetes, hypothyroidism, debilitated status, surgery, trauma, excessive alcohol intake, and heavy exercise.
Combination therapy with a statin and fibrate offers significant therapeutic advantage for the treatment of severe or refractory mixed hyperlipidemia.
Although such a combination does increase the risk of myopathy, with an incidence of approximately 0.12%, this small risk of myopathy rarely outweighs the established morbidity and mortality benefits of achieving lipid goals.
Nevertheless, a higher incidence of myopathy has been reported with statin monotherapy.
When monotherapy with a statin fails to control mixed hyperlipidemia, combination therapy may be considered.
Niacin may be added before a fibrate is considered, as it appears to have less risk of myopathy.
Statin-fibrate combination therapy must be undertaken cautiously and only after careful risk-benefit analysis.
Patient counseling on the risks and warning signs of myopathy is extremely important.
