Title 
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache

Article Title 
Out-patient detoxification in chronic migraine: comparison of strategies.
Abstract Text 
Chronic migraine (CM) patients frequently overuse symptomatic medications (SM).
These medications may create a cycle of rebound, worsening of headache and withdrawal symptoms that perpetuate the headache itself.
In addition, the overuse of such substances is believed to counteract the efficacy of preventive treatments.
We conducted a prospective randomized open-label trial comparing approaches to out-patient management in 150 CM patients (125 women, 25 men; ages 18-80 years, mean 40.3 +/- 13.8) with overuse of SM.
In each group, 50 patients received education and orientation and were then abruptly withdrawn from all SM.
Immediately following withdrawal, the first group took prednisone (60 mg/ day 2 days, 40 mg/day 2 days and 20 mg/day 2 days) for 6 days, the second group did not have any regular medications to take and the third group took naratriptan (2.5 mg twice a day) during this initial period.
All patients had similar profiles of headache characteristics and consumption (quality and quantity) of SM before initiation of the treatment, but most were not severe headache sufferers, heavy SM overusers or were overusing opioids.
After 5 weeks the headache frequency and intensity, the prevalence and frequency of withdrawal symptoms and consumption of rescue medications during the first 6 days were compared between groups.
In addition, adherence to treatment (who returned or not and for which reasons, between groups) and headache frequency, week by week, among the groups of patients were also compared.
Forty-four (88%) patients from the prednisone group, 41 (82%) from the 'nothing' group and 35 (70%) from the naratriptan group adhered to the treatment and returned.
The were no differences between groups with regard to treatment adherence (P = 0.072), headache frequency as well as intensity (P = 0.311) and decreasing of days with headache after 5 weeks and weekly (P = 0.275).
However, the incidence of withdrawal symptoms and consumption of rescue drugs was higher among the patients who did not take regular medications during the first 6 days (P = 0.0001 and P = 0.006).
We concluded that CM patients with moderate overuse of SM other than opioids may be detoxified on an out-patient basis regardless of the strategy adopted with regard to the use of regular drugs during the initial days of withdrawal, but prednisone and naratriptan may be useful for reducing withdrawal symptoms and rescue medication consumption.
Further controlled studies are necessary to confirm these observations.
