Title 
The Journal of clinical psychiatry

Article Title 
Augmentation of antidepressants with atypical antipsychotic medications for treatment-resistant major depressive disorder: a meta-analysis.
Abstract Text 
To examine the efficacy and overall tolerability of augmentation of standard antidepressants with atypical antipsychotic agents for treatment-resistant major depressive disorder.
MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane database, and program syllabi from major psychiatric meetings held since 2000 as well as a number of online clinical trial results registries were searched.
Makers of atypical anti-psychotic agents who do not maintain an online clinical study results registry were contacted directly.
Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials assessing adjunctive treatment of standard antidepressants with an atypical antipsychotic agent for treatment-resistant major depressive disorder were identified.
Data were extracted with the use of a pre-coded form.
Data from 10 clinical trial reports involving a total of 1500 outpatients with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder were identified and combined using a random-effects model.
Patients randomized to adjunctive treatment with an atypical antipsychotic agent were more likely to experience remission (risk ratio [RR] = 1.75, p < .0001)
or clinical response (RR = 1.35, p = .001)
than patients who received adjunctive placebo.
Pooled remission and response rates for the 2 treatment groups were 47.4% vs. 22.3% and 57.2% vs. 35.4%,
respectively.
Although there was no difference in overall discontinuation rates (p = .929)
or the rate of discontinuation due to inefficacy (p = .133)
between the 2 treatment groups, the rate of discontinuation due to adverse events was lower among placebo-treated patients (RR = 3.38, p < .0001).
These results support the utility of augmenting standard antidepressants with atypical antipsychotic agents for treatment-resistant major depressive disorder.
An obvious limitation of this work is the absence of data focusing on the use of aripiprazole and ziprasidone.
Future short- as well as long-term studies comparing the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of this versus other adjunctive strategies are warranted.
