Title 
Journal of clinical epidemiology

Article Title 
Associations of serum and dietary magnesium with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, insulin, and carotid arterial wall thickness: the ARIC study. Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study.
Abstract Text 
The objective of this study was to examine the relationships of serum and dietary magnesium (Mg) with prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension, diabetes mellitus, fasting insulin, and average carotid intimal-medial wall thickness measured by B-mode ultrasound.
A cross-sectional design was used.
The setting was the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study in four US communities.
A total of 15,248 participants took part, male and female, black and white, aged 45-64 years.
Fasting serum Mg, lipids, fasting glucose and insulin were measured; as was usual dietary intake by food frequency questionnaire and carotid intima-media thickness by standardized B-mode ultrasound methods.
The results showed that serum Mg levels and dietary Mg intake were both lower in blacks than whites.
Mean serum Mg levels were significantly lower in participants with prevalent CVD, hypertension, and diabetes than in those free of these diseases.
In participants without CVD, serum Mg levels were also inversely associated with fasting serum insulin, glucose, systolic blood pressure and smoking.
Dietary Mg intake was inversely associated with fasting serum insulin, plasma high density lipoprotein-cholesterol, systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
Adjusted for age, race, body mass index, smoking, hypertension, Low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and field center, mean carotid wall thickness increased in women by 0.0118 mm (p = 0.006) in diuretic users and 0.0048 mm (p = 0.017) in nonusers for each 0.1 mmol/l decrease in serum Mg level; the multivariate association in men was not significant.
In conclusion, low serum and dietary Mg may be related to the etiologies of CVD, hypertension, diabetes, and atherosclerosis.
