Title 
Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology

Article Title 
Intranasal beclomethasone as an adjunct to treatment of chronic middle ear effusion.
Abstract Text 
Following otitis media, 10% to 50% of children develop residual middle ear effusion with concurrent hearing loss and potential cognitive, behavioral, and language impairment.
Prophylactic antibiotics and tympanostomy tubes are currently recommended treatments for chronic middle ear effusion.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study of chronic middle ear effusion, we assessed the effectiveness of topical intranasal beclomethasone as an adjunct to prophylactic antibiotic therapy.
Sixty-one children, aged 3 to 11 years with persistent middle ear effusion greater than 3 months, were randomized into three treatment groups: (1) prophylactic antibiotics; (2) prophylactic antibiotics plus intranasal beclomethasone (336 micrograms/day); and (3) prophylactic antibiotics plus intranasal placebo.
Patients were evaluated with aeroallergen skin tests at entry; and tympanogram, otoscopic examination, and symptom questionnaire at 0, 4, 8, and 12 weeks.
While middle ear pressures, otoscopic examinations, and symptom scores were improved for each treatment group over 12 weeks of therapy, the beclomethasone plus antibiotics group improved all three measures more rapidly than the antibiotics-alone and placebo nasal spray plus antibiotics groups over the first 8 weeks.
Only the beclomethasone group significantly improved left (P = .004)
and right (P = .01)
middle ear pressures over 12 weeks.
Resolution of chronic middle ear effusions was more frequent in the beclomethasone group (P < or = .05
at 4 and 8 weeks).
No difference in response to nasal steroids was observed between atopic and nonatopic subjects.
We conclude that intranasal beclomethasone may be a useful adjunct to prophylactic antibiotic treatment of chronic middle ear effusion.
